## Processes and signals

A process can be thought of as an instance of a program in execution. We called this an instance of a program, because if the same program is run lets say 10 times then there will be 10 corresponding processes.
Moving ahead, each process has its own unique process ID through which it is identified in the system. Besides it own ID, a parents process ID is also associated with a process.
A PID (i.e., process identification number) is an identification number that is automatically assigned to each process when it is created on a Unix-like operating system.
A process is an executing (i.e., running) instance of a program. Each process is guaranteed a unique PID, which is always a non-negative integer.
The process init is the only process that will always have the same PID on any session and on any system, and that PID is 1. This is because init is always the first process on the system and is the ancestor of all other processes.


A signal is an event generated by the UNIX and Linux systems in response to some condition. Upon receipt of a signal, a process may take action.
A signal is just like an interrupt; when it is generated at the user level, a call is made to the kernel of the OS, which then acts accordingly.

There are two types of signals:
-Maskable: signals which can be changed or ignored by the user (e.g., Ctrl+C).
-Non-Maskable: signals which cannot be changed or ignored by the user. These typically occur when the user is signaled for non-recoverable hardware errors.

